# Turbo-fan-engine-Run-to-failure-predictions-using-Pytorch-LSTM-Networks
The need for deep learning approaches in SMART manufacturing is gaining traction, so the need for highly optimized models is in high demand as deep learning algorithms have shown an increased accuracy in predicting the time-series related dataset problems due to its complex architecture compared to conventional machine learning techniques. In this repo we can see how a improved version of the Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) known as the LSTM or Long Short-Term Memory Network works in producing highly optimized models for prognostic related challenges. I am using LSTM architecture on a PyTorch framework backend to build a model which is tested on four different run to failure datasets provided by the NASA repository on turbofan degradation for aircrafts. The repo starts by highlighting the benefits and developments in today’s world done by deep learning approaches especially in the Manufacturing industry. A brief introduction is also provided about how the data is generated and pre-processed for model training. This is then followed by showing a step by step approach of how the LSTM PyTorch model is designed with various parameters and clear results are displayed in tabular forms of the test results for 3 different optimizers, which are RMSprop, SGD and ADAM. The results show after comparing the RMSE values for each optimizer trained models that the RMSprop is clearly better. This is followed by a further hyper-parameter optimization to improve the current RMSE results also displayed in tables below. The repository ends on showing how Transfer Learning can be utilised to further deep learning approaches by using already trained models to predict newer datasets.  
Application Scenario
Dataset
Data from the data challenge competition held at the 1st International Prognostics and Health Management Conference (PHM08) are conducted using C-MAPSS, a tool developed by NASA to simulate realistic large commercial turbofan engines. It has been coded with multiple editable input parameters in MATLAB[25] and Simulink (The MathWorks, Inc.) environments that allow users to enter specific values for their own applications regarding operational profile, environmental conditions, etc.[26]. The diagram of the engine in Fig. 2 Displays the basic C-MAPSS engine simulation fragments and the flow chart in Fig. 3 Shows how different subsystems are assembled to form the simulation.
